README.md, before:

# SSITH-FETT-Target
The target platform for the SSITH FETT bug bounty exercise.


## Software Requirements and Setup

To clone the repo and start `the nix-shell`, please use:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:DARPA-SSITH-Demonstrators/SSITH-FETT-Target.git
cd SSITH-FETT-Target
git submodule update --init
nix-shell
```

* For `nix-shell` issues, please check the instructions in [SSITH-FETT-Environment](https://github.com/DARPA-SSITH-Demonstrators/SSITH-FETT-Environment).   

* Regarding the local `fpga` target:   
    1. A GFE SoC on a Xilinx VCU118 FPGA should be accessible, in
  addition to executing all the [GFE setup instructions](https://gitlab-ext.galois.com/ssith/gfe/tree/develop).   
    2. The ethernet adaptor connected to the FPGA needs to be reset before each run. This requires `sudo` privileges. Thus, the user has two   options: either entering the sudo password when requested by the
  tool (the request explicitly mentions that it is for adaptor reset),
  or by removing the password requirement from resetting that
  particular adaptor.  This can be done by adding the following lines
  in the sudoers file (accessed by `sudo visudo`):
    ```bash
        Cmnd_Alias IP_FLUSH = <path-to-ip>/ip addr flush dev <ethernet-adaptor-name>
        Cmnd_Alias IP_UP = <path-to-ip>/ip link set <ethernet-adaptor-name> up
        Cmnd_Alias IP_DOWN = <path-to-ip>/ip link set <ethernet-adaptor-name> down
        Cmnd_Alias IP_ADD_ADDR = <path-to-ip>/ip addr add <IP_ADDR/24> dev <ethernet-adaptor-name>
        ALL ALL=NOPASSWD: IP_FLUSH, IP_UP, IP_DOWN, IP_ADD_ADDR
    ```

    - In order to simplify this for sudoers, you may just allow any sudo member to execute the `ip` command
      without password by adding the following:
    ```bash
        %sudo ALL=NOPASSWD: <path-to-ip>/ip
    ```
  
  - Note that the `<ethernet-adaptor-name>` changes from a system to
      another. Please review the [FPGA host network configuration setup
      instructions](https://github.com/DARPA-SSITH-Demonstrators/SSITH-FETT-Docs/blob/develop/CI-CD/HostNetworkSetup.md)
      for more details about the adaptors and IP settings.  In case you
      intend to use a different setup, please change
      [setupEnvGlobal.sh](scripts/setupEnvGlobal.sh) accordingly.

### AWS Setup

AWS setup has the following platform variants (PV):

#### FireSim

To utilize its FireSim integration, an AMI was made to run the FETT Target on a F1 instance. It hosts an environment that combines the requirements of both the FireSim and FETT projects. The AMI is referenced with:

**AMI ID: `ami-04c55ee64b3c6f758`**

#### Contents

The image is based on the `FPGA Developer AMI - 1.6.0-40257ab5-6688-4c95-97d1-e251a40fd1fc-ami-0b1edf08d56c2da5c.4 (ami-02b792770bf83b668)` AMI. It runs CentOS 7 and is the AMI used for Firesim. It adds

* An updated version of Git, required by the FETT Environment nix shell installation
* Git LFS, needed by FETT Binaries
* [The Nix Package Manager](https://nixos.org/nix/)
* [SSITH-FETT-Environment](https://github.com/DARPA-SSITH-Demonstrators/SSITH-FETT-Environment) checked out at `2430b00b1becf8957d7fe4a304fb820e74e66972`, with the environment pre-populated at `nix/store`

After launching, it is necessary to setup the git `name` and `email`, as well as register SSH keys with github and gitlab accounts that have the correct access.

See the instructions in `build/FireSimAMI.md` to recreate the image manually.


## User Manual ##

To run the tool, use the following:
```
fett.py [-h] [-c CONFIGFILE] [-w WORKINGDIRECTORY] [-l LOGFILE] [-d]
```

The default configuration file is `config.ini`, working directory is `$REPO/workDir`, and log file is `$REPO/$WRKDIR/fett.log`. If you run with the debug (`-d`) flag, the log file will have a lot of useful info.

Some useful configuration options:
- `target`: Choose either `aws` for the main FETT target, `fpga` for Xilinx VCU118 hardware
    emulation, or `qemu` for [QEMU](https://www.qemu.org/) emulation.
- `processor`: One of the GFE processors or the TA-1 teams processors.
- `osImage`: The operating system on which the tests will run.  The
    SSITH OSs are either [FreeRTOS](https://www.freertos.org/),
    [FreeBSD](https://www.freebsd.org/), or [Linux Debian](https://www.debian.org/),
    or [Busybox](https://busybox.net/about.html).
- `useCustomOsImage`: If disabled, Nix images will be used.
- `openConsole`: returns an open console for Unix targets.
- `buildApps`: Cross-compile as instructed in `fett/apps/build.py`.
- `webserver`/`database`: To choose which Unix application to run. For FreeRTOS, all apps run by default.


## Developer Manual ##

- To control which files to be transferred to target, edit the corresponding function inside `fett/apps/build.py`. You'd have to tar the files into a tar file named `os.path.join(getSetting('buildDir'),getSetting('tarballName'))`, and enable the setting for sending the files: `setSetting('sendTarballToTarget',True)`.
- To execute, modify the function `runApp` inside `fett/apps/<appName>/run.py` to do whatever you want. 
- The most important functions provided inside the `target` object which will be given by default to `runApp()`, is `runCommand`, `switchUser`, and `openSshConn` (all of which are defined inside `fett/target/common.py`.
- There are other functions that can help you while coding whether the build or the execute functions for your experiments. These functions are defined inside `fett/base/utils/misc.py`:
    - `printAndLog(message, doPrint=True)`
    - `warnAndLog(message, doPrint=True, exc=None)`
    - `errorAndLog(message, doPrint=True, exc=None)`
    - `logAndExit(message, exc=None, exitCode=EXIT.Unspecified)`
    - exitCodes are define in the object `EXIT`.
    - `getSetting(setting)`: returns the value of `setting`.
    - `setSetting(setting,val)`: sets the value of `setting`.
    - `isEnabled(setting)`: returns the value of a boolean `setting`.
    - `isEqSetting(setting,val)`: returns True if the setting's value is equal to `val`.
    - `getSettingDict(setting,hierarchy)`: parses a setupEnv dictionary and returns the value.
    - `mkdir(dirPath,addToSettings=None)`: makes a directory `dirPath`. If `addToSettings=STR`, then a setting called STR will be created and equal to this path.
    - `cp(src,dest,pattern=None)`: copy (only files for now). If the `pattern=*.c` for example, it will expand the pattern before copying.
    - `tar(tarFileName, filesList=[])`: Create a tar archive of the files in `filesList`. `filesList` is a list of either:
      (1) file names, to be copied to the tar archive as-is. (2) `(dest name, file name)` pairs, i.e. `file name` will be copied to the archive as `dest name`. Useful for copying files from deeply nested trees.
    - `renameFile(src,dest)`: To rename files.
    - `copyDir(src,dest,renameDest=False,copyContents=False)`: Copy directory `src` to `dest`. If `renameDest` is enabled, the `src` becomes `dest` instead of its child. If `copyContents` is enabled, the `src` contents are copied to `dest`.
    - `make(argsList,dirPath)`: makes a makefile inside dirPath. The `-C` flag is added in the function, you add any other flags to make.
    - `ftOpenFile(filePath,mode)`: safely opens a file, and stores its handle in the trash can. You should still close it cleanly, but if the error handling is complicated, then don't worry about it, everything in the trash can object will be destroyed upon exit.
    - `ftReadLines (filePath)`: Returns the contents in `filePath` as a list of strings
    - `matchExprInLines (expr,lines)`: If you pass a regex `expr` and a list of strings, it returns the matched string.

- To add a configuration option, you have to update the json dictionary in `fett/base/utils/configData.json`.
- To add/change a system setting, you have to update the json dictionary in `fett/base/utils/setupEnv.json`.

Commit message:

add git lfs note for binaries

README.md, after:

# SSITH-FETT-Target
The target platform for the SSITH FETT bug bounty exercise.


## Software Requirements and Setup

To clone the repo and start `the nix-shell`, please use:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:DARPA-SSITH-Demonstrators/SSITH-FETT-Target.git
cd SSITH-FETT-Target
git submodule update --init
nix-shell
```

* For `nix-shell` issues, please check the instructions in [SSITH-FETT-Environment](https://github.com/DARPA-SSITH-Demonstrators/SSITH-FETT-Environment).   

* Regarding the local `fpga` target:   
    1. A GFE SoC on a Xilinx VCU118 FPGA should be accessible, in
  addition to executing all the [GFE setup instructions](https://gitlab-ext.galois.com/ssith/gfe/tree/develop).   
    2. The ethernet adaptor connected to the FPGA needs to be reset before each run. This requires `sudo` privileges. Thus, the user has two   options: either entering the sudo password when requested by the
  tool (the request explicitly mentions that it is for adaptor reset),
  or by removing the password requirement from resetting that
  particular adaptor.  This can be done by adding the following lines
  in the sudoers file (accessed by `sudo visudo`):
    ```bash
        Cmnd_Alias IP_FLUSH = <path-to-ip>/ip addr flush dev <ethernet-adaptor-name>
        Cmnd_Alias IP_UP = <path-to-ip>/ip link set <ethernet-adaptor-name> up
        Cmnd_Alias IP_DOWN = <path-to-ip>/ip link set <ethernet-adaptor-name> down
        Cmnd_Alias IP_ADD_ADDR = <path-to-ip>/ip addr add <IP_ADDR/24> dev <ethernet-adaptor-name>
        ALL ALL=NOPASSWD: IP_FLUSH, IP_UP, IP_DOWN, IP_ADD_ADDR
    ```

    - In order to simplify this for sudoers, you may just allow any sudo member to execute the `ip` command
      without password by adding the following:
    ```bash
        %sudo ALL=NOPASSWD: <path-to-ip>/ip
    ```
  
  - Note that the `<ethernet-adaptor-name>` changes from a system to
      another. Please review the [FPGA host network configuration setup
      instructions](https://github.com/DARPA-SSITH-Demonstrators/SSITH-FETT-Docs/blob/develop/CI-CD/HostNetworkSetup.md)
      for more details about the adaptors and IP settings.  In case you
      intend to use a different setup, please change
      [setupEnvGlobal.sh](scripts/setupEnvGlobal.sh) accordingly.

### AWS Setup

AWS setup has the following platform variants (PV):

#### FireSim

To utilize its FireSim integration, an AMI was made to run the FETT Target on a F1 instance. It hosts an environment that combines the requirements of both the FireSim and FETT projects. The AMI is referenced with:

**AMI ID: `ami-04c55ee64b3c6f758`**

#### Contents

The image is based on the `FPGA Developer AMI - 1.6.0-40257ab5-6688-4c95-97d1-e251a40fd1fc-ami-0b1edf08d56c2da5c.4 (ami-02b792770bf83b668)` AMI. It runs CentOS 7 and is the AMI used for Firesim. It adds

* An updated version of Git, required by the FETT Environment nix shell installation
* Git LFS, needed by FETT Binaries
* [The Nix Package Manager](https://nixos.org/nix/)
* [SSITH-FETT-Environment](https://github.com/DARPA-SSITH-Demonstrators/SSITH-FETT-Environment) checked out at `2430b00b1becf8957d7fe4a304fb820e74e66972`, with the environment pre-populated at `nix/store`

After launching, it is necessary to setup the git `name` and `email`, as well as register SSH keys with github and gitlab accounts that have the correct access. To properly update the SSITH-FETT-Binaries, git lfs can be invoked with

```
$ cd /home/centos/SSITH-FETT-Target/SSITH-FETT-Binaries
$ git-lfs pull
```

See the instructions in `build/FireSimAMI.md` to recreate the image manually.


## User Manual ##

To run the tool, use the following:
```
fett.py [-h] [-c CONFIGFILE] [-w WORKINGDIRECTORY] [-l LOGFILE] [-d]
```

The default configuration file is `config.ini`, working directory is `$REPO/workDir`, and log file is `$REPO/$WRKDIR/fett.log`. If you run with the debug (`-d`) flag, the log file will have a lot of useful info.

Some useful configuration options:
- `target`: Choose either `aws` for the main FETT target, `fpga` for Xilinx VCU118 hardware
    emulation, or `qemu` for [QEMU](https://www.qemu.org/) emulation.
- `processor`: One of the GFE processors or the TA-1 teams processors.
- `osImage`: The operating system on which the tests will run.  The
    SSITH OSs are either [FreeRTOS](https://www.freertos.org/),
    [FreeBSD](https://www.freebsd.org/), or [Linux Debian](https://www.debian.org/),
    or [Busybox](https://busybox.net/about.html).
- `useCustomOsImage`: If disabled, Nix images will be used.
- `openConsole`: returns an open console for Unix targets.
- `buildApps`: Cross-compile as instructed in `fett/apps/build.py`.
- `webserver`/`database`: To choose which Unix application to run. For FreeRTOS, all apps run by default.


## Developer Manual ##

- To control which files to be transferred to target, edit the corresponding function inside `fett/apps/build.py`. You'd have to tar the files into a tar file named `os.path.join(getSetting('buildDir'),getSetting('tarballName'))`, and enable the setting for sending the files: `setSetting('sendTarballToTarget',True)`.
- To execute, modify the function `runApp` inside `fett/apps/<appName>/run.py` to do whatever you want. 
- The most important functions provided inside the `target` object which will be given by default to `runApp()`, is `runCommand`, `switchUser`, and `openSshConn` (all of which are defined inside `fett/target/common.py`.
- There are other functions that can help you while coding whether the build or the execute functions for your experiments. These functions are defined inside `fett/base/utils/misc.py`:
    - `printAndLog(message, doPrint=True)`
    - `warnAndLog(message, doPrint=True, exc=None)`
    - `errorAndLog(message, doPrint=True, exc=None)`
    - `logAndExit(message, exc=None, exitCode=EXIT.Unspecified)`
    - exitCodes are define in the object `EXIT`.
    - `getSetting(setting)`: returns the value of `setting`.
    - `setSetting(setting,val)`: sets the value of `setting`.
    - `isEnabled(setting)`: returns the value of a boolean `setting`.
    - `isEqSetting(setting,val)`: returns True if the setting's value is equal to `val`.
    - `getSettingDict(setting,hierarchy)`: parses a setupEnv dictionary and returns the value.
    - `mkdir(dirPath,addToSettings=None)`: makes a directory `dirPath`. If `addToSettings=STR`, then a setting called STR will be created and equal to this path.
    - `cp(src,dest,pattern=None)`: copy (only files for now). If the `pattern=*.c` for example, it will expand the pattern before copying.
    - `tar(tarFileName, filesList=[])`: Create a tar archive of the files in `filesList`. `filesList` is a list of either:
      (1) file names, to be copied to the tar archive as-is. (2) `(dest name, file name)` pairs, i.e. `file name` will be copied to the archive as `dest name`. Useful for copying files from deeply nested trees.
    - `renameFile(src,dest)`: To rename files.
    - `copyDir(src,dest,renameDest=False,copyContents=False)`: Copy directory `src` to `dest`. If `renameDest` is enabled, the `src` becomes `dest` instead of its child. If `copyContents` is enabled, the `src` contents are copied to `dest`.
    - `make(argsList,dirPath)`: makes a makefile inside dirPath. The `-C` flag is added in the function, you add any other flags to make.
    - `ftOpenFile(filePath,mode)`: safely opens a file, and stores its handle in the trash can. You should still close it cleanly, but if the error handling is complicated, then don't worry about it, everything in the trash can object will be destroyed upon exit.
    - `ftReadLines (filePath)`: Returns the contents in `filePath` as a list of strings
    - `matchExprInLines (expr,lines)`: If you pass a regex `expr` and a list of strings, it returns the matched string.

- To add a configuration option, you have to update the json dictionary in `fett/base/utils/configData.json`.
- To add/change a system setting, you have to update the json dictionary in `fett/base/utils/setupEnv.json`.
