ci/README.md, before:

# CI for SSITH-FETT-Target
The CI for target platform for the SSITH FETT bug bounty exercise.

We have four types of jobs:
1. **runOnPush-$flavor:** 
    - Trigger: Every push on any branch. Please use wisely.
    - Logic: N/A.
    - Source: All configs in `./ci/runOnPush-$flavor`.
2. **runDevPR-$flavor:**   
    - Trigger: Every push on an open PR to develop.
    - Logic: Key features and flows.
    - Source: All configs outlined in `appSets['runDevPR-$flavor']` in `./ci/configs.py`.
    
3. **runPeriodic-$flavor:** 
    - Trigger: Scheduled to run nightly.
    - Logic: All features and flows.
    - Source: All configs outlined in `appSets['runPeriodic-$flavor']` in `./ci/configs.py`.
    
4. **runRelease-$flavor:** Same as periodic, but should be manually triggered.
    - Trigger: Manual only.
    - Logic: All features and flows.
    - Source: All configs outlined in `appSets['runRelease-$flavor']` in `./ci/configs.py`.

Flavors:
1. **unix:** Runs on machines tagged `docker-fpga`.
2. **freertos:** Runs on machines tagges `docker-fpga-io`.

Commit message:

Adding contents of nightly-ci branch before disaster

ci/README.md, after:

# CI for SSITH-FETT-Target

## Regular CI

The CI for target platform for the SSITH FETT bug bounty exercise.

We have four types of jobs:
1. **runOnPush-$flavor:**
    - Trigger: Every push on any branch. Please use wisely.
    - Logic: N/A.
    - Source: All configs in `./ci/runOnPush-$flavor`.
2. **runDevPR-$flavor:**   
    - Trigger: Every push on an open PR to develop.
    - Logic: Key features and flows.
    - Source: All configs outlined in `appSets['runDevPR-$flavor']` in `./ci/configs.py`.

3. **runPeriodic-$flavor:**
    - Trigger: Scheduled to run nightly.
    - Logic: All features and flows.
    - Source: All configs outlined in `appSets['runPeriodic-$flavor']` in `./ci/configs.py`.

4. **runRelease-$flavor:** Same as periodic, but should be manually triggered.
    - Trigger: Manual only.
    - Logic: All features and flows.
    - Source: All configs outlined in `appSets['runRelease-$flavor']` in `./ci/configs.py`.

Flavors:
1. **unix:** Runs on machines tagged `docker-fpga`.
2. **freertos:** Runs on machines tagges `docker-fpga-io`.

## Nightly Testing CI

### Setup

- Install [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/install-cliv2.html)
- Create an SSH key (named `~/.ssh/aws-ci-gh`) and associate it with your github account - this will facilitate checking out the branches specified with the `-b` and `-bb` flags.
- `pip3 install boto3 --user`

### Usage

```bash
python3 nightly.py [-h] [-n NAME] [-i] [-c COUNT] [-cp CAP] [-b BRANCH] [-bb BINARIES_BRANCH] ami
```

**Only if the `init` flag is used:** When prompted, add your AWS Keys

### Results

The results will be posted to the AWS S3 bucket for Nightly-CI.
